Hi I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
I've always been a really
big fan of the body
and its innate
ability to heal itself
if we give it the chance.
But what does that really mean?
Well, my guest today,
Dr. Fabrizio Mancini
wrote a book called "The
Power of Self-Healing
and How the Body can
Heal Itself Naturally."
As a matter of fact, Dr. Mancini
says that many of our illnesses
heal themselves naturally.
Dr. Mancini is a
Doctor of Chiropractic
and the President
Emeritus of Parker
University in Dallas, Texas.
Welcome to the show.
Hi, Lisa.
It's so good to
be here with you.
-It's good to have you here.
-I know.
I've been looking
forward to just having
this conversation with you.
Because I know what a fanatic
you are in being healthy.
Yes.
And you know, I wish more people
will find health something
valuable in their lives.
Because it can really open up
all kinds of opportunities.
It's changing so much too.
And I'm sure you've seen
that from past generations
to now, where I just,
in the next 50 years,
can't wait to see where we
are in our state of health
with all of the new awarenesses
that are coming about.
But yours is the most
important that I think.
Because it is about
our ability to restore
our bodies to a natural
state of homeostasis.
So tell me about that
phrase that you said,
that our body can
naturally heal itself.
Well what happens
typically is that we've
been conditioned to
always look for health
outside of ourselves.
It seems like we don't
even listen to our bodies
unless we're in a lot of pain.
And I've often said that
pain is just the alarm
system of the body
saying, hey, take
a look at what you're doing.
Because whatever you're
doing is not helping me.
And it's breaking me down.
-And even we override it too.
Right.
But the problem is,
most of us, we just
want to numb that pain away.
We want it to just go away.
We look at it as an enemy
instead of a close friend
that is trying to warn
us that perhaps we're
going in the wrong direction.
And when you talk
about generations,
I mean, right now the biggest
issue is that our mortality
rate is getting bigger.
So we're living longer.
Longer.
And the challenge is who wants
to live longer if your quality
of life is going to be poor?
Right?
I mean, we have a lot of people
in their 60s right now that
really have to take multiple
medications just to make it
through the day, cannot be
active, have retired, but now
have no health to enjoy it.
And we don't want to
end up in the same way.
We have no idea what the
state of our health care system
is going to be.
So we need to take
this and empower
ourselves to do it on our own.
And that's the
key word, empower.
I feel that most of us
are feeling disempowered,
because we feel that
our health is not really
a responsibility or our power.
And all I'm asking is,
look, the more you learn
about the human body, the more
you learn that we are designed
to heal ourselves naturally.
We have systems in place.
Like, we have an
immune system that
is stronger than any pill or
medication that you can have.
And that immune system
is set up to fight
any bacteria or viruses that
you come in contact with.
In fact, many of those
bacterias or viruses
live within ourselves but we
never feel any symptoms of it.
It's only when our
immune system is low,
that now it becomes an issue.
And then now we have
to deal with it.
And many of us think, oh,
it has to be an antibiotic.
But why not build
your own antibiotic?
Why not feed your
body the right things?
Why not move your body
and all of those things
are actually the
ones that stimulate
the immune system in the body.
Does the immune system,
as its conquering
those bacterias in the body,
is that what keeps it stronger,
that natural
conquering ability--
it's like a natural workout
for the immune system?
Well, that's a very good point.
It's because our bodies
have the ability to have
what you call antibodies.
And we can produce them anytime.
So it's just like a bunch
of construction workers
that you're hiring any time
that you have a project.
Well, the project is, let's say
that you have an invading agent
such as a virus walking in.
Like we have some
kind of cold, right,
a virus that is sweeping our
classrooms and then our bodies
naturally make those
antibodies to fight it.
And it is a work
out for the body
because it has the
ability to bring in a crew
together and work very
hard to repair the tissue
and to fight it.
But then once a virus is
fought, then it goes away
and then it goes
back into that state
of homeostasis or balance.
And then it's not in a constant
state of producing antibodies.
The challenge is that when we
have an environment that we're
constantly surrounded
by things that are not
helpful to the body, then
our bodies break down
because they're not
designed to keep
fighting or keep
repairing tissue
for long term, only short term.
-OK.
So that explains it, why
the immune system over time
gets bludgeoned and
it just wears out.
And that's what happens
with chronic illnesses.
As you know, over 80% of
our health diseases today
have chronicity, meaning
that they're long term
and medications have now
found the answer to them,
because the challenge is that
once that inflammation builds
in, that information then
prevents the body from actually
being able to heal, whether
it's rheumatoid arthritis
or whether it's
diabetes or whether it's
heart disease in some way.
And all we're
saying is this, when
you apply some things such as
healthy eating into the place,
so the food that you
eat has the ability
to be a reinforcement, the
fuel that you give your body
to crank up those
antibodies and crank up
all those healthy
behaviors that the body
is designed to be anyway.
And kind of give it a fresh
start, because our bodies
are constantly regenerating.
So just because you feel like
your body's not doing it right
now, it doesn't mean it can't
do it two months from now,
three months from now.
-OK.
So it's not a, that
didn't work for me now.
It'll never work again.
That's what happens a lot
of times, we block ourselves
and say, well, I've had this
chronic pain for two years.
Well, let's evaluate what got
us there in the first place
and what can I do different in
order to make sure that I end
up with a different outcome?
So I've heard a
statistic recently saying
that the placebo effect is--
you might know this better
than I do, 20%, 50% effective?
What is--
The placebo effect
in my opinion,
is one of the most
amazing things,
because what is this placebo
effect for those of you
that may not know.
The placebo effect is actually
when you would trick a patient
into thinking that they're
giving you something that has
chemistry in it, but it's
really just a sugar pillow
or it's got nothing.
And your belief system,
which is that I think
this is going to
help me actually
helps over 50% of
those patients.
50%, wow.
So what happens is that
if that is the case,
then why don't we utilize
that analogy in everything
in our lives and just trust
that the body has the capability
of healing, instead
of thinking, oh, I
have to have some
kind of shot in order
for me to be able
to fight a cold?
Why not trust in your body that
your body has an immune system
ready to fight that
cold whenever it comes,
not only once a year,
but throughout the year.
And why not feed
that body or exercise
or begin to think
more positively.
Because there's so many studies
have shown that when we think
optimistically our
bodies heal up to 40%
faster than when we don't.
That's amazing.
So that's what your whole
concept of self-healing is.
It's the mind's ability
to heal itself, right?
It's not just the mind.
It's the body too.
And really when you think about
it like that, and you said it,
all I could think about,
all I'm doing really
is reintroducing
yourself to your body
and introducing you
to a body that is--
Like my mind to my
body or my whole self?
Well, when I talk
about the body,
I talk about the
physical, the emotional,
and the spiritual self.
-OK.
So on the physical level,
I want you to understand
that our body has
systems in place
that are set up to actually
maintain a very healthy life.
In fact, most of the
studies right now
are showing us that
we are destined
to live up to 120 years old.
-Wow.
120 years old.
So that's what the
science is telling us.
But we want to live
healthy into 120.
That's the challenge.
I mean, honestly, let's
think for a minute.
How many people
over 50 years old
do you know right now that you
can say they're truly healthy?
And I'm around a lot
of healthy people.
I know one.
And I don't know that many.
And she's extraordinary.
She's 74 and extraordinary.
But she's green
juiced all her life.
And a very active senior.
And what I'm
trying to do is-- so
what I did is I did about a
25 year study and thousands
of patients that
I served in order
to find out what were the common
denominators in all healing.
Oh, good.
And why I decided to
put it in this book
is because I wanted to
be able to show that when
our bodies feel
limited physically,
we can always access
our emotions, our mind.
And when our mind gets
a little bit limited,
we can always access our spirit.
And that's the way that I
want people to understand
that wherever they
are in their journey,
to understand that when the
body, the mind, and the spirit
are properly aligned,
is when you're setting
the environment for
your body to self-heal
at the greatest level.
So what is one of
the things that you
remember the most from
your book of the greatest
way of self-healing?
Just an example.
Well, if it's on
a physical level,
I would say right now
is your nutrition.
Nutrition, OK.
Because right now one of
the things that we have known
is that we've done a lot
of studies that have shown
that what we think
about the foods we eat
have a lot to do with the
outcome in our bodies.
For instance, if you eat some
food that you may not think
is healthy for you
but mentally you beat
yourself up before and after.
I shouldn't have eaten that.
I shouldn't have
eaten that, that
Turns into a negative
expression in our bodies.
But if you eat, let's
say, a slice of pizza,
but you're celebrating it
with your best girlfriend.
You having the best talk
ever, then that slice of pizza
doesn't actually have the
negative impact that it would
have had if you just
keep yourself saying,
I shouldn't have that pizza.
That's not going to
be healthy for me.
That's going to
make me gain weight.
That's going to make
me feel sluggish.
That's going to make me not be
able to sleep good at night.
Yeah.
I absolutely have done
that before with cupcakes.
Because they're so cute.
So what I often say to
my patients is just look,
I don't you to be perfect.
You don't need to be perfect.
If you're going to have
those type of foods,
then celebrate them.
Tell yourself the opposite.
-That's great.
This cupcake is going to
make me lose so much weight.
make me have so much energy.
It's going to make
me sleep good.
It's going to make me
feel good about myself.
But do the opposite, because
your mind is actually
sending the message to
the body through the brain
and creating the
right chemistries
to be able to digest that
good in either a positive way
or a negative way, which is
what we call indigestion.
Interesting.
That is so interesting.
And that is why so many
people have indigestion
is because they're beating
themselves up saying,
oh I didn't have time to
prepare a good meal today.
Lately I've been
teaching people just
to do smoothies, because
I realize in a busy life
that I have, that I
just make my smoothies
and I keep it always ready.
So no matter what time
throughout the day, if I'm
running late or if
I don't have time,
you know, I just put
that smoothie, drink it,
and it has all the wonderful
vegetables and fruits.
What do you put it in?
As an example.
For mine, you know, lately I've
been doing a lot of green ones.
So I've been doing spinach.
I've been doing kale.
I've been doing-- I put a slice
a banana, a slice of apple.
I've been doing broccoli,
because I love broccoli.
And then I blend it.
And it's just delicious.
And no protein powder
or anything in there?
You get the natural protein?
It depends.
You know, because usually
I already have some protein
that I like to have it,
like either lean chicken
or some turkey.
But if I don't, then I have
a non animal protein powder.
I like mostly protein powders
like pea protein powder.
Yes, green pea, yeah.
And that works
really well for me.
So it works good for you.
Yeah, I like that idea too.
It's a great way to start off
a child in the morning too
on the way to school.
Great smoothie, like
you just mentioned.
Good way to set them up.
All right.
We're going to take
a look at this video.
Because this is
Dr. Fab giving you
some exercises
just to feel good.
Take a look at this.
So, I want all of
you to stand up.
This has been the one
technique in movement
that you can do anywhere
that I have found
works better than anything.
So I want you to put
your feet together.
I want you to put
your hands down.
Bend your knees a little bit.
And start shaking.
Start moving up and down.
Just like that.
Come on.
Feel it out.
Now, you can do a little bit of
the American Indians as they,
hi, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya.
Hi, ya, ya, ya, ya.
But just feel it.
You see, you can do this
five or 10 minutes a day,
whenever you feel like your
energy is a little bit low.
This is a great feeling.
Now, you can do it the rest
of the talk if you want to.
Find your purpose and
your purpose has to be
something bigger than yourself.
It cannot be about survival.
It cannot be about
paying your bills.
It cannot be about paying
the salaries in your office.
It cannot be about buying
the car you want, about
buying the house you want.
It has to be about something
greater than yourself.
The health of humanity could
use you right now as a purpose,
just if you apply yourself.
Make that your
purpose every day.
Ignite your creative part.
Get creative.
Don't think within the box.
Think out of the box.
Whenever you're confronted
with a challenge,
think out of the box.
Because everybody else is
just reacting like you.
And if you're not thinking
out of the box, unfortunately,
you'll have the same results
that you've always gotten.
Forgive as many
people as you can.
Forgive yourself
more importantly.
You know, all of us beat
ourselves up for the mistakes
that we made.
Who hasn't made a mistake?
I've made big ones.
I tell my staff,
sometimes I see sometimes
they want to do so well.
And I always say,
listen, mistakes
are the greatest
teachers if you choose
to look at it as a lesson.
So look at your
mistakes as lessons
as long as you learn something
constructive about it.
Another characteristic that we
have for most serving leaders
is problem-solving, healing.
You see most of us spend
80% of our time dwelling
on a problem, 80% of our time.
Most executives spent 33% of
our time crisis management.
And I observe people the people
that truly a serving leaders
are the ones I
spend the majority
of their time thinking about
the solutions of the problem.
You know that Albert
Einstein had a statement that
is one of my favorite quotes.
And I say it often because
I have to remind myself
of that every single day.
And that is that you can not
solve the problems of today
with the same level of
thinking that created them.
You can't solve the
problems of today
with the same level of
thinking that created them.
So we must change our thinking.
We must think out of the box.
We must start thinking, what
can I do right now to be
able to solve this problem?
One of the best
exercises that I do
when I have a problem is that I
write the problem down and then
I spend a concerted effort in
writing every possible thing
that I can do right now
to solve that problem.
And then it's like a checklist.
But at least it
gives you a guidance
of what you can do right
now to solve your problem.
So my question to you is,
what are your problems?
And you're making
your problem's bigger
than what they need to be?
Good question.
So when people come
to you, what are some
of the biggest complaints
that people have
when they come see you?
Well, you know, as a
chiropractor for many years,
most people actually came
because of pain, chronic pain,
whether it was back pain,
whether it was headaches,
whether it was shoulder pain.
Is it mostly back pain?
Back pain is about over 60% why
people choose chiropractic care
because we're so effective.
And all the studies
that we have done,
we are the most effective way
of taking care of back pain,
especially chronic pain.
Because the alternatives
are usually surgery.
Right.
And that has no effect at all.
I mean most of the studies
say please, don't do it.
Because what happens if you do
a surgery, then unfortunately,
you have scar tissue
and you can keep
going in there doing the
surgery because that's going
to be a long term problem.
So it you can manage
it naturally, so that's
one of the many reasons.
But when I wrote the book and I
started getting the message out
there that there's
so much more, now it
seems like I'm attracting
patients that are really
chronically ill with cancers,
heart disease, diabetes,
and they're just looking
for how do they leverage
their emotional side and
their spiritual side to be
able to impact the physical?
So I still do the
chiropractic adjustments,
because if you don't have
a healthy nervous system,
you're going to be limited
of how much you can heal
or how fast you can heal.
But then when you start talking
about the emotions that keep us
unhealthy or the emotions
that make us healthy
or how do I begin to live
a more spiritual life?
Do I start praying a
little bit more often?
Do I start meditating a
Do I get closer with nature?
Do I start figuring out
what my purpose in life is?
And you know and once people
realize that, it makes all
the difference in the world.
Go beyond the
typical chiropractic
when you talk like that.
And really to me, what
health is all about.
It's just a complete-- I
call it a three legged stool.
You know is the physical, the
emotional, and the spiritual.
And we need to do something
in all those three legs
every single day.
We just can't expect
our physical bodies
to be able to resolve
our emotional problems
or spiritual problems.
Now you come at this from
that quite a history here.
What was the reason that
you got into healing
in the first place?
Well, it was
actually a divine act
that I was in a car accident
as I was doing pre-med.
And I landed in the hospital
and an orthopedic surgeon
that I knew said, I can
give you painkillers
and I can give you
anti-inflammatories,
but why don't you go
see my chiropractor?
And that afternoon, I had never
heard the word chiropractor.
I just thought it was a
specialty in medicine.
What medicine
were you studying?
-I was pre-med.
-Oh, OK.
So I had decided I was going to
go into medical school and then
neurosurgery.
I was fascinated with
the nervous system.
Wow.
So I did a volunteer
rotation in the hospital
in the surgical wing.
So I got to meet a
lot of the doctors.
And when I went to
the chiropractor,
I just got my whole mind,
my whole world opened up
to what I call
natural healing, where
anything that is
non-pharmaceutical
or nonsurgical is what
I call natural healing.
And then of course, I decided
to become a chiropractor.
Then I studied acupuncture.
Then I studied nutrition.
Then I started looking
at energy medicine.
And all these years of
education, whatever I realized
is that it helped me
understand the human body more.
But the fact is that
everybody has the ability
to heal from inside themselves.
I'm only a facilitator.
I'm not the healer.
Nobody is the heater
except the body.
You know?
That is so-- I'm so
glad you said that.
Yes.
If you could just get to
the top of that mountain
and scream that, that
would help us all
Well, because
everybody's looking
for someone to heal
them, when in reality,
you are your own healer.
It starts with you.
It absolutely does.
Everything starts with you.
And I found out that a
lot of times the reasons
that we don't heal
is because we don't
feel worthy of being healthy.
We don't love ourselves enough.
One of the emotions that
I found that it could be
the most healing
emotion is love,
but it's got to be a self love.
It all starts with ourselves.
-A deep self love.
But most of us, our
impression of love
is what other people have
shown us over our history.
If our parents loved us, then
we feel maybe a little bit
more worthy of being loved.
But if they put
conditions on that love,
now we expect that
we can only be
loved unless we do
those conditions,
perform those conditions.
-Absolutely.
And I talk about what is called
unconditional love, meaning
accepting yourself as you are,
embracing your perfections,
embracing your
imperfections, recognizing
that no one's perfect.
You may be five, four but
you want to be six foot tall.
But you know what, if you
talk to a six foot tall,
she wishes since she
was a five foot four.
Exactly.
Because it's tiring being
so tall all the time.
And everybody looking up at you.
Now can chiropractic
actually reduce
inflammation in the body?
Well, that's a great question.
So chiropractic, the
way that it works
is that removes
interferences that are
irritating the nervous system.
And we did many studies,
especially in the '60s and '70s
in the '80s and '90s that
continue to show that when
a vertebrae is
misaligned, that it
can actually create
an irritation
in the nervous system.
That irritation turns
into inflammation.
So whenever you correct
that alignment, where
that now that individual
is properly aligned,
the structure automatically
affects the function,
the inflammation reduces.
And now the body can
repair itself naturally.
Because inflammation,
when it's there long term,
it inhibits the body
from actually healing.
Inflammation is surely there
to be a protective mechanism
to repair tissue short term.
Let's say you sprain your ankle.
You notice that it starts
getting swollen, right?
Well, that's all the blood
vessels and the blood platelets
that are going into
that area to repair
the tissue such as the
muscle and the ligaments
that got probably torn.
To heal it.
But it's supposed
to be a short window,
it's supposed to be
only be 48 hours or so.
But now if that
swollen ankle stays
there for two weeks,
six weeks, eight weeks,
it starts breaking
down the tissues.
And now that ankle has ability
to actually get a lot worse
than just a sprained ankle.
Because now you're not
getting enough blood
supply to the tissues.
That's how it happens.
Nerves become an issue, so
now it starts getting numb.
Now you start losing
the feeling in it
or it becomes very painful
and inflammation is the key.
So that's how we get into
chronic states of illness.
And then that of course,
we start to protect it
with our emotions.
One of the things that we're
going to take a look at here
is your wonderful ability to use
laughter as a tool for healing.
Take a look at this and laugh.
Take a look.
Our actions are very
critical because it
allows us to really be what it
is that we're wanting to be.
There's a formula for
success that I don't
know if you've heard of before.
But in today's time it's really
the most profound formula
for success ever invented.
And that is be, do, and have.
The challenge is that most
of us have been trained
or conditioned to think that
we must have first, before we
can do, before we can be.
And the challenge with that
is totally opposite to what
the formula is.
That means that just
because you don't have today
doesn't mean you can't
act like you have it.
Act as if, which is a
principle that we've
been taught for many years.
Act as if.
So if you want to be healthier,
act as if you're healthier.
At least think a little bit
more about being healthier.
If you want to be wealthy, act
and behave like you're wealthy.
And a simple step towards
wealth, you know what it is?
Just managing your money
and having a relationship
with your money like you
would have with somebody
you care about.
Not about having
money and throwing
money away and mistreating
it because money
is a relationship.
And the more the
relationship and the
deeper the relationship,
you want to harness it.
You want to protect it.
You want to put it to good use.
And you know, Mr. Jones
was a widower 75 years old.
And he came into my
office very depressed,
hadn't showered, full
of beard, white beard.
And I examined
him and I adjusted
him and I sent him away.
Well, two weeks later,
I'm having dinner
with my wife in a restaurant.
And Mr. Jones comes
in all dressed up
in a beautiful suit with
an incredibly gorgeous 22,
23-year-old woman next to him.
So he sees me in the
corner of his eyes
and he goes to my table and
says, and says, Dr. Mancini,
so great to see you.
I just want to thank you.
I said, Mr. Jones,
what happened to you?
Just two weeks ago
you were depressed.
You were feeling miserable.
Oh, but Dr. Mancini, don't
you remember what you said to
me has changed my life.
And I said, Mr.
Jones, what did I say?
He said, Dr. Mancini, you
said, you get a hot momma
and be cheerful.
I said, Mr. Jones,
that's not what I said.
I said you have a heart
murmur so be careful.
Whatever you listen to,
that's what's important.
It worked for him,
it can work for you.
And the third emotion
that keeps you
from fulfilling your successful
potential is anxiety.
And anxiety is more
related to the present.
Right now you're graduating,
it's like oh my gosh,
oh my gosh.
I'm not going to have any
tests on Monday morning.
What am I going to
do Monday morning?
Anxiety of whatever emotions
you're going through right now.
And the one emotion that
allows you to diffuse
that anxiety is actually love.
There is nothing more
powerful than love.
And the kind of love
that I'm talking about
is not the kind of love
that is conditional.
It's an unconditional love,
the same love that you have
for a brand new baby, a
brand new baby that you have
no expectations except the
desire to want to serve,
to be able to be there, to
cuddle, to love, to kiss on,
whatever the case may be.
Even if you're
changing a diaper,
it's amazing when you
change a diaper of somebody
that you love, like your
son or your daughter,
it smells very different
than if you change the diaper
of your neighbor's kid.
I'm telling you.
If your wife says, oh honey,
would you change the diaper?
Sure, honey, I would love to.
Ah, smells so good.
But try to change the diaper
of somebody else's kid.
It's a very
different experience.
I want you to learn to love
yourselves unconditionally.
I want you to look in the
mirror and say, I love you.
I really, really love you.
Every day, a few times
a day, I love you.
Because you see, if you can't
love yourself authentically,
if you can't love
yourself unconditionally,
there will be no way you can
love anyone else that way.
So after all of the
chiropractic work you've done,
this is your message, is about
self love to heal the body.
Is that where self-healing
begins is in self love?
Well, the thing
is that you can't
have self healing
until you love yourself
enough to want to be healthy.
Because you have to
prepare your body to say,
I am worthy of being healthy.
And then when you
appreciate yourself enough,
that's when you begin
to explore, OK, then
what do I have to work with?
How does this body really work?
How can I leverage it?
How can I utilize it
to my best interest?
How can I let it help me
live the quality of life
that I want to live?
Take for example,
you go to a doctor
and you've got to heart
illness and a weight issue,
and the doctor says you need
to go exercise and eat healthy.
And then he gives
you a prescription
and you walk out the door.
You have no idea
what that means.
Where do you start?
Exercise and eat healthy.
And so there's a lot
of emotional aspects
that come to why
you don't exercise
and why you don't
eat healthy, right?
Well, one of the things that
I've discovered over the years
is the fact that when I ask
people, is there one thing
that you can think of right
now that you feel you can eat
that will make you healthier?
All of us know what
that is, right?
More fruit and vegetables.
It's that simple, right?
You know, do people recognize
that going to the gym
or working on a treadmill
or taking a walk
is going to help
them be healthy?
They do.
But then the question
is, why don't they do it?
To me, I boil it down
to one simple thing.
They don't think
they're worthy of it.
Because if you think you're
worthy, if you love yourself,
if your self-esteem is high,
and you take care of yourself,
what happens?
You begin to surround
yourself with people that
take care of themselves too.
And you feel good.
Right.
And then you realize that that
has an impact in every area
of your life, better
relationship with your husband,
better relationship
with your family,
with your work,
better relationship with God.
I mean everything in
life makes a difference
because now you feel that,
wow, I love myself enough.
I'm worthy of this life.
I'm enjoying this life.
I want to live, instead
of feeling like a victim,
or what I call survival
mindset, that you're
just making it through the day.
I mean you wake up,
do the same routine,
expecting different results,
but just surviving every day.
Just please, just let
me get through this day.
That's not a way of living,
but that's really what most
people are doing right now.
-Yep.
And then you add
substance abuse on to that
or alcohol and so
forth, just to numb
the pain of the daily grind.
And then it manifests
into even more illness.
So--
We identified
three emotions that
actually are the ones
that help us break
away from that sabotaging.
The first one is forgiveness.
And the way that I
talk about forgiveness
is, you need to
identify those things
in your life, those
people in your life
that hurt you and
acknowledge it.
I don't mean you have to forget
it, but you need to release it.
Because the problem
is that health only
happens on the present time.
That means that we're only
capable of healing when
we're living in the moment.
But if we are stuck in the past,
worrying about and thinking
about all these things
that happened to us
and not letting
them go, it doesn't
allow our bodies to be able
to self-heal to the degree
that it can.
But how do you
just let that go?
I mean, because some of
those are deep wounds.
I know.
And the thing is to be able
to love yourself enough
to realize that I cannot
keep going on like
this unless I release that.
So let's take a for instance,
a patient of mine that
had a father that when
she was 16 years old,
the man was drunk, walked into
her room and raped her, right?
The father never discussed
it with her again.
She never told her mom.
She never told a soul.
Fast forward it, she meets
her beautiful man in college.
Wants to marry this man.
But she sabotaged every
relationship up to that time
and she doesn't want
to sabotage this one.
So she came to me and she
says, I don't know what to do.
I know I'm going to sabotage it.
And I don't want to.
So did she come to you for
a physical adjustment or--?
She actually came because
she was a patient of mine
already because she was having
some migraines I think it was.
So when I started
discussing, could there
be a cause to this
problem that is emotional?
Is there something out there
that you haven't let go of?
And then she just broke down.
And she felt like she
needed to tell me.
So what I did is, I
had her do an exercise
and this is a great
simple exercise.
I had her close her eyes.
I had her imagine, what was the
last time she saw her father.
Her father had passed away.
So she went back to
the hospital room.
I say, well, get close
to him, sit next to him.
I want you to look at his eyes.
Tell me what color his eyes are.
Oh, they're green.
I said, I want you
to look at his eyes,
and then I'm want you to
say these words after me,
but only if you mean them.
I say, Dad, I forgive you.
I don't understand what made
you do that but I forgive you.
You've been a good father.
And probably the
father was drunk.
He didn't even remember
doing it or whatever,
but the next day she called me.
And she says, I feel
like a new person.
She went ahead and got married.
Never had another issue with
thinking negatively about a man
because immediately
she lost trust.
And her biggest challenge was
that she didn't want to engage
in a relationship in which she
couldn't trust the person she
was getting married because
her father, the figure
that she trusted the
most let her down.
And also where that
would've manifested
in the future physically, if she
hadn't gone after that healing,
that emotional healing.
That's your ulcerative
colitis right there.
That's your cancer right there.
You know usually uterus cancer.
Because all of those emotions
are stored in our bodies.
You see, what most
people don't realize
is that emotions are memory
cells that are stored
within our bodies and all
of our sales in our bodies
have emotions attached to it.
And those emotions can
actually be reactivated just
by thinking of the
emotion that got
it started in the first place.
So I give you an example.
So you're driving home from
work one night, and it's dark.
You have the lights
on and it's raining.
And then you look at
the rear view mirror,
you see some lights coming
behind you and boom,
it hits you.
Puts you in the hospital.
You have neck pain.
You can't move your neck.
It takes you about
two months to recover.
Six months later, same
scenario, you're leaving work.
It's raining.
You get in your car.
You see the bright
lights, right?
But the car doesn't hit you.
Right?
And you go through
the same symptoms
like if the car would have
hit you and you ask yourself,
we have had many patients
like this over the years,
what happened?
Why did my neck get so tight?
I mean, the car
didn't even hit me.
It was because those memory
cells were reactivated
by you putting yourself
in an environment
that actually recalled them.
Well, that happens to
us every single day
by the people that we
surround ourselves with,
by the same arguments that we're
having with the same people
year after year, by the
environment that we have
as far as who are friends are.
Do we have people that are very
uplifting and positive or do we
have what I call the downers
and the energy robbers
out there, that they just
suck the energy of you and you
come home so exhausted, or
working in an environment
that you hate to make a
paycheck when there's plenty
of opportunities out there to
find an environment that is
more conducive to your values.
-Yes.
And that's absolutely true.
And it goes unconscious
after a little while.
You just see these images
and you just adapt to them
and you don't understand
the brutality you're doing
to your own body in that way.
So let's talk about
generational belief systems.
So regardless of trauma
happening in your life, what
about belief systems that are
handed down, like when you get
old, you're going to be sick,
or you're going to get cancer
because your
grandmother had cancer,
those types of--
are those genetics
or are they belief systems.
Actually it's
interesting because now
because of the new
discovery of epigenetics,
we realize that the
environment around the cell
is the one dictating
how the cell is going
to turn out in the future.
And it's actually
changing genes.
We never thought
that was possible.
We thought the genes dictated
how we would turn out.
That they were set, yes.
But that's not the case.
But the belief system is
a little bit different
because it's not
a physical thing.
It's an emotional
state of mind that
turns into a physical thing.
So for instance, if you're born
in an environment that believes
that we were meant
to be healthy,
not an environment
that is always sick,
not in an environment
that you as soon as you
feel the weather
changing, immediately you
feel you're going to get a
cold, or not an environment
that you feel
you're going to get
the conditions such as
diabetes and heart disease
that your parents
and grandparents got.
A belief system is your
attitude towards life
is your belief whether something
is possible or not possible.
And one of the things that
I'm convinced right now that
is the most important
thing in self-healing
is the fact that you must
adapt a belief system
that trusts and believes
that your body has
the capability to heal.
Because we cheat
ourselves every single day
when we hear a sentence by
a doctor or a diagnosis,
all of a sudden
we feel that that
is the way that is going to be
or that illness has defined us.
We're not illnesses.
We're individuals, individuals
with a tremendous amount
of power to be able
to heal that illness
under the right conditions.
And the most important
condition that I have found
is to have a belief system
that allows you to know
that your body can heal.
That you can heal, that you
don't-- I mean I'm not saying
not to go to the doctor if
you have a serious illness,
but to try to heal
that illness if you
can with your mind first.
Is that what you're saying?
Well what I'm saying is
that don't let your condition
dictate your outcome.
Don't let your history
prevent you from your destiny.
Don't let what has
happened in the past
determine how you're going to
be able to be in the future.
So for instance I like the fact
that you want to go to a doctor
is the primarily get an
evaluation of how you're doing.
And information, right?
So for instance, I get my
blood checked every six months.
And I do that primarily because
I find that chemistry is
a great way of finding out
how my hormones are doing, how
my blood vessels are doing,
cholesterol, and then
I started looking at, OK,
what are the behaviors
that I need to start changing?
But before I can
change a behavior,
I got to change my thinking.
Because let's say my
cholesterol is high,
but I'm still having some
of those heavy foods that
are not healthy for
the cholesterol,
that's not going to help me.
So then what do I have to do?
I need to start thinking
differently to say, OK,
how can I put the emotional
attachments to foods that
are healthier for
me that can give me
the greatest satisfaction
but yet not harm my body
or along the way.
So that crunch of
a carrot can replace
the crunch of a potato chip.
And this is the beautiful
thing because our bodies
are adaptive, beings,
your body would
only crave what you give it.
If you give your body enough
carrots for enough time,
it will crave the carrots
rather than the potato chips.
And most people
say well, you know
I cannot leave my chocolate.
I cannot leave my potato chips.
I cannot I leave
my fried chicken.
But the reality is if you
give your body healthy food
for enough time,
and I'm not saying
you have to replace
everything at once,
but slowly start
substituting unhealthy foods
for healthy foods,
you'll start seeing
that your body doesn't
crave the unhealthy foods
after a period of time.
It happened to me when
I stopped eating wheat,
is if I ever go back to
eat a piece of bread,
it tastes like
cardboard to me now.
It absolutely is
completely unsatisfing.
I can detect if there's
wheat in something
because it tastes weird to me.
After five years of not eating
it I can taste it in anything.
Well now that we have
technology that is allowing us
to understand that we have what
is called food intolerance,
that means that there are
certain foods that our bodies
are not accepting well and it's
creating too much inflammation
in our bodies, once I
talk to those patients
that they've been
off gluten or they've
been off certain things, after
a while they don't even miss it.
But then the idea
of even having it,
they can't conceive
it because they know
that they feel so
good now why would
they ever want to go there?
-Yeah.
That's very interesting.
And I think the intolerances
are more so now than ever
because our food supply
is completely contaminated
at this point and
has been modified
to a point where the body rarely
recognizes what was wheat.
Yeah.
The way that we used to eat.
So we are going to take
a look at this clip
here about belief systems.
Because it really all
boils down to that.
Take a look.
I've had back pain on and
off for at least five years.
We are going to really evaluate
where this pain is coming from.
Because if the pain may not
be what you think it is.
If you've tried everything,
but your pain still
isn't going away, don't
give up because the pain
may not be what you think.
And our next guest is desperate
to get rid of her lower
back pain once and for all.
Hi, doctors, I've
been suffering
from chronic lower back pain
for what seems like forever.
I get massages gut the
pain always comes back.
This is taking a
huge toll on my life.
Is there anything you can do
to help get rid of this pain?
Please help.
Well, Beverly want
to see chiropractor,
Dr. Fabrizio Mancini at Parker
University in Dallas, Texas.
Let's see if he was able to get
to the bottom of her back pain.
So what we're
going to do today is
we're going to really evaluate
where this pain is coming from.
Because the pain may not
be where you think ti is.
One of our technologies
that we use
is called inside
station, which is
going to tell us what the
autonomic nervous system is
doing.
And then number two
is called the surface
EMG where we're recording
the electrical activity
of the muscles.
This is the latest
technologies is
custom orthodics in the world.
We've got to know if
the source of the pain
is coming in from the way
that we're distributing
weight in our feet.
She actually has
50% more weight
on her left than her right.
So, Beverly, what
we found in your exam
is that you had four
segments in your spine
that were out of alignment.
The first one was your pelvis.
The second one was
in your low back.
And we notice that in your
upper back and in your neck,
there's some activity where
the muscles are very tight.
So Beverly, now we're going
to give you an adjustment.
That's what makes chiropractic
a very different approach.
We look for the
cause of the problem,
not just the management of
the symptoms of the problem.
Here you go.
Perfect.
Wow, love that.
I'm here with chiropractor
doctor Fabrizio
Mancini from Parker
University in Dallas, Texas
along with Beverly.
Thank you both for joining us.
Thank you so much
for having us.
And so, you've been
having some treatments.
How are you feeling now?
Oh my gosh, I feel so great.
I travel a lot, and
on the trip here
I was just like, oh my
gosh, I got off the plane,
and I just didn't
feel like a pretzel.
Which is good.
And I think, today's show,
it's all about the pain
may not be what you think.
So, Dr. Fab, let's
talk about what pain
often is in your back that
may not be what you think.
Well
Any, and in her
case, it was primarily
her travel schedule was
putting a lot of undue stress
on her spine.
But also we found out that she
had a couple of accidents that
were not addressed
properly and corrected
and they were just showing
up now, later on in her life.
And then we did the
chemical evaluation,
in which it's her diet.
With the travel
schedule that she has,
she's not eating property.
She's got too much
sugar in her body
and that stresses
the nervous system,
and that can also
create inflammation
that shows up as pain.
And then the last one was
the emotional component
of the stress.
And the emotional was that
she started a new business.
She wants to help
a lot of people.
She's got a lot of stress in
getting this business going.
And all of that tension
builds up in our spine,
and that causes an underlying
cause of why the pain shows up.
And it's interesting you bring
this up because stress cannot
only just increase
pain in general
because of the environment
that it creates around you,
but stress has a physiologic
effect on our muscles.
If we're constantly
stressed out--
we've all felt this way right?
Where it's like,
take a deep breath.
You take a deep
breath and everything
relaxes a little bit.
But when you're
stressed out constantly,
it can reflect itself
in these areas of pain.
Absolutely
And I love that you take a
multifaceted approach here,
because again it's all
these things combined.
And you actually
brought one of devices
that you used on Beverly, right?
Yes.
Well, one of the things that
I had to share with Beverly
was the fact that the
pain is not the problem.
The problem is the fact
that the body communicates
through the nervous system.
And it just lets us know that
there is a problem inside,
but the pain itself
is not the problem.
And when we see the animation
of the nervous system,
we see that the pain travels
all through the brain,
throughout the
whole spinal cord,
and it shows through all these
impulses that are communicating
back and forth from
the body to the brain
then the brain to the body.
But I also know that there's
some individuals-- so we're
trained to actually
find the cause
of that problem which
we call subluxations,
which are the misalignments.
And then we just correct it.
And I know that there's
some people that
are afraid to go
to a chiropractor,
because sometimes they
see that the noise that
is produced after an adjustment
is a little bit scary.
But what I did with Beverly,
is also I introduced this unit
that is called an activator.
And it's a very simple unit
that has very little rubber end.
And then we just went to the
little segments in her spine,
just like that.
And that allowed me to
correct the misalignments
and the subluxations,
and that's what gave her
that relief that she now has.
Because the cost of the pain
was not necessarily her back.
Actually in our exam, we found
out that most of her cause
was coming from her
upper back and her neck
and some of the other
stresses that we found
chemically and emotionally.
We are so happy that
you're feeling better.
Thank you so much.
That's what's most
important here.
Thank you for joining us.
And everyone in the
audience is going
home with a copy
of Dr. Fab's book,
"The Power of Self-Healing."
So it is definitely all
about our belief systems.
What was it like
for you growing up?
You grew up in Colombia, right?
-Yes.
And then when did
you move to the US?
I was 13 years old
and we moved to Miami.
And my parents
really just wanted
us to have more opportunities
in the United States.
I mean, we love Columbia and
half of our family is there.
But for us, being
five boys coming
to a country like the
United States, it was like,
wow, all these opportunities.
And honestly, my parents
just wanted us to choose
whatever career we wanted.
Because in there, it felt
like you had to do always
be part of the family business.
They had a business of olive oil
and passed us and all of that.
And none of us really
wanted to do that.
All of us are in a
different industry.
Oh,
Interesting.
But what it was interesting for
me is the fact that it was very
different culturally, because
the United States for me
was a little bit
more spread out.
In Colombia as a Latin, we
get together all the time
and we celebrate.
And most of our
foods, whether it's
lunch or dinner
or breakfast, it's
all really a celebration of
talking about each other's day
and what happened.
And what I found out
through my research
is that Hispanics are
living longer now than most
whites and African Americans.
And the reason for that
they found in the research,
is because they have the
ability to actually unload
their emotional stress
in a support system
that we're finding
that we're not seeing
that in the other cultures.
Interesting.
Absolutely, sometimes
the other cultures
are split apart here in
America, because we do have
a wide range of places to move.
But in that familial
situation, you get to download
and sometimes it's great and
sometimes it's not so great,
but you least get it out.
I know.
And the thing is that, let's
say you having an argument
with somebody and instead of
swallowing and that up and not
telling anybody, it's so
healthy just to kind of release
it, tell somebody
about it, and you
know it's within the family.
And you know it's interesting
because whether you meet
in somebody's house
or it's a park
or whatever, it's just you
always see the Latin community
always coming together.
And also in our foods, now
we may not eat as healthy
as some other cultures,
but what we do
have is the healthy
emotions behind eating.
Because eating should
be a celebration.
It should never be just
a chore, oh, I'm just
going to grab something to go.
It should be really a
way to feed the body, not
only physically, but
emotionally as a way of saying,
I'm nurturing you.
I'm taking care of you.
And we're doing it with
people we love around us.
So like for us, we have
also Italian descent,
so growing up with that
Italian descent family--
It's all about the
food for you guys.
When we cook, we put so
much love into that food
that people just love it.
But you can go get the
same recipe somewhere else
that the support that
emotion behind it,
and it doesn't taste the same.
I mean, you always
hear the expressions,
this is so delicious.
What did you do?
I've had the same recipe, but
mine doesn't feel like that.
And that's why like our
moms and our grandmas
are really into cooking
because they put so much love.
That's a way of
saying, I love you.
-The added ingredient is love.
-Yeah.
Have you noticed
any specific health
challenges within the Hispanic
community that you address?
I know hat you
have a show on CNN.
Yeah, right now one of
my biggest challenges
out there is the fight that
when it comes to obesity,
we're ranking really high.
When it comes to
heart disease, when
we come to some of the cancers,
and I believe that part of that
is our lifestyle.
We need to be able to
make better choices.
Right now as a culture, it
seems that we just work,
work, work, work.
And then we just overeat.
Eating has become kind of like
a way of supplementing the fact
that we are away
from our countries,
away from the environments
that were very nurturing.
I love the spirit
of an immigrant that
comes to the United States,
because whether you're Hispanic
or anything else, because
you come to build something,
to create a better future.
And most of time they're
sending money back
to their relatives at home to be
able to provide for themselves.
And they sacrifice
themselves around that.
But there's a price
to pay for that.
And sometimes that price
is that emotional void
that you find a lot of times
in our cultures is food.
And that's what's leading
to a lot of our obesity.
So what I'm trying
to really convey
to our culture is that instead
of eating so much, how about
working out together?
How about going for
a walk together?
You know, how about being
able to go to the park
and create some
games and all of that
so we can move our
bodies a little bit more.
Or how about just having an
emotional fest of gratitude.
Healthy foods.
And just being grateful
for the opportunities
that we've been giving
instead of dwelling on what
we have lost.
Well, you have
absolutely contributed
so much to that
community and many,
many different communities.
You have been up to
a lot in your life.
I want you to take a look at
the life and times of Dr. Fab.
Take a look.
NARRATOR: In an age
full of questions,
it's reassuring to know
as soon as answers.
Dr. Fabrizio Mancini
opens the door
to understanding today's complex
and failing health care system
and provides
alternative solutions
to achieving better
health and wellness
and in turn, a better life.
A practiced and proficient
presenter, Dr. Mancini
is an internationally
acclaimed bilingual speaker
who would adeptly connects
with today's audiences,
breaking through
barriers of confusion
and complicated questions
and who easily communicates
a simplified response
to the demands
of living in today's society.
Dr. Mancini's love of
humanity and learning
has garnered him much respect
and recognition, including
Heroes for Humanity Humanitarian
of the Year, CEO of the Year,
and the honor of
having one of Mexico's
newest leading
universities, Zenebe,
name their library after him.
His service as educator
and philanthropist,
contributions to numerous
publications, history
of providing assistance
to governmental entities,
and his experience as a highly
sought after guest on radio
and television programs,
complement Dr. Mancini's
position as an
accomplished authority
and specialist in the field
of health and wellness.
Now, universities and other
educational institutions,
corporate organizations,
and media partners,
are afforded the
opportunity to experience
what thousands of health
care professionals
and millions of individuals
have known for years,
the wit, wisdom, life-changing
truths shared by Dr. Mancini.
Ignite your creative
part, get creative.
Don't think within the box.
Think out of the box.
Whenever you're confronted
with a challenge,
think out of the box.
Because everybody else is
just reacting like you.
And if you're not thinking
out of the box, unfortunately,
you'll have the same results
that you've always got.
NARRATOR: Dr. Mancini
stands ready to bring
a message of health and wellness
to organizations wanting
to train employees, media
partners seeking expert
advice for their audiences,
and educational institutions
interested in exposing
students and faculty
to a better life of wellness
and stress-free living.
With over 20 years hands-on
experience, affecting change
and reshaping lives, this
talented, capable speaker
and engaging expert will
motivate and inspire
your audience to reach new
heights of personal success
and enhanced health
and wellness.
So how do you walk
your talk in your life?
What do you-- how do you live?
What's your routine like?
I know you travel a lot.
Yeah, that's a great
question because I
believe that it's very
difficult to promote
a message you don't live.
Because we know that words are
less than 10% of communication.
But the certainty of living
it, and feeling it every day
is what people feel.
So my routine is very simple.
I get up around
5:00 in the morning.
I'm at the gym by 5:15.
I live across gym.
And for me, I've always
taught myself that I
just needed to get to the gym.
-Just move.
Because if I get to
the gym, I can figure
out something to do in the gym.
And it could be a Zumba class.
It could be a yoga class.
It could be training
with weights.
It could be cardio.
It could be tennis.
It could be something.
But every day I do something.
And then I do--
Now, do you eat before
you go to the gym?
-No.
-You don't.
I don't.
I do a recovery
shake after and I
do primarily some organic
berries, frozen berries.
I freeze them and then
I put them on the shake
so that way they're cold.
And then I put water.
And that's where I put a lot
of my nutritional supplements
that are going to help me.
That's why I call
it a recovery shake.
And then I incorporate now a 20
minute meditation after that.
Because I wanted to
start developing more
my mental capacity
and be more still.
And I wasn't doing
as much of that.
I was doing five
minutes earlier,
but then I just start
incorporating that.
And then I start my
routine for the day
and then I have is a
pretty good healthy lunch.
And then I continue working
and then in the evenings,
I typically don't
eat after 7:00 PM.
And my dinner is very light.
I typically either juice
some vegetables primarily.
I do smoothies just
vegetables, no fruit,
because I don't want
that sugar at night.
Or I may make some soup.
So I make have some
salad, but something that
is not too strong or too heavy.
Because I notice that
that's one of the best
kept secrets is that if you just
don't eat too late at night,
and don't overeat, you
can lose the weight.
But most of us don't do that.
That's a great way
to start right there.
Yes.
And actually, I would love to
talk a little bit about that
with the concern of obesity
in this particular country
and some ways to
even start with that.
I know you say self
love is very important.
You talk about that
enabling the self-healing.
Other techniques on how you
can start to lose the weight.
Well, one of the main things
to lose the weight for me
is the fact that you've
got to change your thinking
towards your food.
So if you can start
looking at food
from a healthy perspective,
like in the book,
I teach you what to eat
from the perspective
of preventing illnesses.
So we know that for
instance an apple,
most people don't realize
that is one of the best ways
to prevent strokes in your life.
Wow.
And most people would never
put an apple with stroke.
But they know an apple is
very good for digestive things
and other things.
If you use kale, kale is
wonderful because it's
a great immune enhancer.
So any time that you have an
immune disorder or you get
colds very often
just incorporate
more kale into your life.
So that's one of the
best things so you
can do is start looking
at food as a way
of preventing illnesses rather
than just satisfying a hunger.
So could you juice the kale?
Do you blanch the kale?
-I juice it all it.
-You juice it.
Yeah I mean I've
become a big juicer
right now, just because it's
so simple and practical.
It takes five minutes
to put together.
And with the
routine that I have,
I needed something that
was very easy to do.
But yet again, I find my
body craving these things.
It's like a blood tonic.
It is.
It's full, complete
cellular food.
And the other thing is also
take a look at what behaviors
may causing the weight.
We know we've got to move
our bodies a little bit more.
So on I often recommend my
patients to really park away
from the door, as far
away from the door
as you can so you can
force yourself to walk.
Take the stairs rather than
the elevator, simple reminders.
You know, if you're working
in an office, every hour
or so get up at five
minutes and just
walk around even if it's
within your own office,
but just move your body.
Don't sit in one position
too long because that's
what doesn't allow our
metabolism and our thyroid
and all that to function
as healthy as it can.
It also detoxifies the body.
I think it moves the toxins out.
One of the best things that I
do and I do that once or twice
a year is I do a 21 day detox.
-Wow.
And is just what I do is
just vegetables and juicing
and all this healthy stuff.
And just to kind
just purify my body.
And I have the most energy.
I typically lose more
weight than anything else.
And for me, as
I've gotten older,
it's really about making sure
that I'm maintaining my energy
levels high, that
I'm sleeping eight
hours minimum, which I do.
Because the average American
three and 1/2 hours a day.
Wow.
Three and one half
hours a night.
Three and a half?
Three and one half.
And what happens is that
that's why all this late night
TV, that's the worst thing you
want to do, because the rays
from the television awaken
your brain to the point it
won't let you go to sleep.
You've got to get back to
that alpha and delta wave.
But it puts it into beta
when you watch television.
So it's going to
make you too alert.
Even if you're laying
down, your mind is still
going which really isn't sleep.
What I would say instead,
do a meditation instead.
Put some soft music
in the background.
Get yourself into that state
of relaxation or read a book.
A lot of times,
just reading a book
just calms the mind to the
point of just being relaxed
instead of being active.
Well, I know particularly, that
you're really a good dancer.
This is one of the things.
You've got to take
a look at this.
We're going to
play this out here.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
And being a part of this and
inspiring us as you have.
And take a look at
the real Fab Mancini.
Take a look at this.
Thanks.
Dr. Fab Mancini.
[SALSA MUSIC]
Hello, everybody.
Come on.
That's the real Fab Mancini.
But I believe that is
that Colombian in me,
but also dancing is
very healing too,
because it just creates
endorphins in the body
and you just feel so good.
-It does.
It makes you feel good.
Makes other people, 5,000
in the room there feel good.
-They were loving it.
-I loved it.
Oh, I loved it.
I just want love it.
I loved it.
Because I know you're
a great dancer.
My kids love this dance,
and they said, Dad,
have you seen this video before?
And I said, no, I
haven't seen it.
And I just learned
it the night before.
You did it in front to
5,000 people the next day.
You're brave.
Thank you so much
for teaching us
about living and loving life.
Thank you so much, also about
the power of self-healing.
That's where it stems from, is
living and loving life, yes?
Very much so.
And that we're worthy of
having the most amazing
life that we can possibly create
for ourselves and our families.
Thank you so much,
thank you so much.
And thank you for watching my
interview with Dr. Fab Mancini.
If you want it forward
into your friends,
you can go to giamtv.com.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.